A Report to an Academy



Honored members of the Academy! 
  

You have done me the honor of inviting me to give your Academy an account of the life I formerly led as an ape. 
  

I regret that I cannot comply with your request to the extent you desire.  It is now nearly five years since I was an ape, a short space of time, perhaps, according to the
calendar, but an infinitely long time to gallop through at full speed, as I have done, more or less accompanied by excellent mentors, good advice, applause, and orchestral
music, and yet essentially alone, since all my escorters, to keep the image, kept well off the course.  I could never have achieved what I have done had I been stubbornly
set on clinging to my origins, to the remembrances of my youth.  In fact, to give up being stubborn was the supreme commandment I laid upon myself; free ape as I was,
I submitted myself to that yoke.  In revenge, however, my memory of the past has closed the door against me more and more.  I could have returned at first, had human
beings allowed it, through an archway as wide as the span of heaven over the earth, but as I spurred myself on in my forced career, the opening narrowed and shrank
behind me; I felt more comfortable in the world of men and fitted it better; the strong wind that blew after me out of my past began to slacken; today it is only a gentle
puff of air that plays around my heels; and the opening in the distance, through which it comes and through which I once came myself, has grown so small that, even if
my strength and my willpower sufficed to get me back to it, I should have to scrape the very skin from my body to crawl through.  To put it plainly, much as I like
expressing myself in images, to put it plainly: your life as apes, gentlemen, insofar as something of that kind lies behind you, cannot be farther removed from you than
mine is from me.  Yet everyone on earth feels a tickling at the heels; the small chimpanzee and the great Achilles alike. 
  

But to a lesser extent I can perhaps meet your demand, and indeed I do so with the greatest pleasure.  The first thing I learned was to give a handshake; a handshake
betokens frankness; well, today now that I stand at the very peak of my career, I hope to add frankness in words to the frankness of that first handshake.  What I have
to tell the Academy will contribute nothing essentially new, and will fall far behind what you have asked of me and what with the best will in the world I cannot
communicate—nonetheless, it should indicate the line an erstwhile ape has had to follow in entering and establishing himself in the world of men.  Yet I could not risk
putting into words even such insignificant information as I am going to give you if I were not quite sure of myself and if my position on all the great variety stages of the
civilized world had not become quite unassailable. 
  

I belong to the Gold Coast.  For the story of my capture I must depend on the evidence of others.  A hunting expedition sent out by the firm of Hagenbeck—by the way,
I have drunk many a bottle of good red wine since then with the leader of that expedition—had taken up its position in the bushes by the shore when I came down for a
drink at evening among a troop of apes.  They shot at us; I was the only one that was hit; I was hit in two places. 
  

Once in the cheek; a slight wound; but it left a large, naked, red scar which earned me the name of Red Peter, a horrible name, utterly inappropriate, which only some
ape could have thought of, as if the only difference between me and the performing ape Peter, who died not so long ago and had some small local reputation, were the
red mark on my cheek.  This by the way. 
  

The second shot hit me below the hip.  It was a severe wound, it is the cause of my limping a little to this day.  I read an article recently by one of the ten thousand
windbags who vent themselves concerning me in the newspapers, saying: my ape nature is not yet quite under control; the proof being that when visitors come to see
me, I have a predilection for taking down my trousers to show them where the shot went in.  The hand which wrote that should have its fingers shot away one by one. 
As for me, I can take my trousers down before anyone if I like; you would find nothing but a well-groomed fur and the scar made—let me be particular in the choice of
a word for this particular purpose, to avoid misunderstanding—the scar made by a wanton shot.  Everything is open and aboveboard; there is nothing to conceal; when
the plain truth is in question, great minds discard the niceties of refinement.  But if the writer of the article were to take down his trousers before a visitor, that would be
quite another story, and I will let it stand to his credit that he does not do it.  In return, let him leave me alone with his delicacy! 
  

After these two shots I came to myself—and this is where my own memories gradually begin—between decks in the Hagenbeck steamer, inside a cage.  It was not a
four-sided barred cage; it was only a three-sided cage nailed to a locker; the locker made the fourth side of it.  The whole construction was too low for me to stand up in
and too narrow to sit down in.  So I had to squat with my knees bent and trembling all the time, and also, since probably for a time I wished to see no one, and to stay in
the dark, my face was turned toward the locker while the bars of the cage cut into my flesh behind.  Such a method of confining wild beasts is supposed to have its
advantages during the first days of captivity, and out of my own experiences I cannot deny that from the human point of view this is really the case. 
  

But that did not occur to me then.  For the first time in my life I could see no way out; at least no direct way out; directly in front of me was the locker, board fitted close
to board.  True, there was a gap running right through the boards which I greeted with the blissful howl of ignorance when I first discovered it, but the hole was not even
wide enough to stick one's tail through and not all the strength of an ape could enlarge it. 
  

I am supposed to have made uncommonly little noise, as I was later informed, from which the conclusion was drawn that I would either soon die or if I managed to
survive the first critical period would be very amenable to training.  I did survive this period.  Hopelessly sobbing, painfully hunting for fleas, apathetically licking a
coconut, beating my skull against the locker, sticking out my tongue at anyone who came near me—that was how I filled in time at first in my new life.  But over and
above it all only the one feeling: no way out.  Of course what I felt then as an ape I can represent now only in human terms, and therefore I misrepresent it, but although
I cannot reach back to the truth of the old ape life, there is no doubt that it lies somewhere in the direction I have indicated. 
  

Until then I had had so many ways out of everything, and now I had none.  I was pinned down.  Had I been nailed down, my right to free movement would not have
been lessened.  Why so?  Scratch your flesh raw between your toes, but you won't find the answer.  Press yourself against the bar behind you till it nearly cuts you in
two, you won't find the answer.  I had no way out but I had to devise one, for without it I could not live.  All the time facing that locker—I should certainly have
perished.  Yet as far as Hagenbeck was concerned, the place for apes was in front of a locker—well then, I had to stop being an ape.  A fine, clear train of thought,
which I must have constructed somehow with my belly, since apes think with their bellies. 
  

I fear that perhaps you do not quite understand what I mean by "way out."  I use the expression in its fullest and most popular sense—I deliberately do not use the word
"freedom."  I do not mean the spacious feeling of freedom on all sides.  As an ape, perhaps, I knew that, and I have met men who yearn for it.  But for my part I desired
such freedom neither then nor now.  In passing: may I say that all too often men are betrayed by the word freedom.  And as freedom is counted among the most
sublime feelings, so the corresponding disillusionment can be also sublime.  In variety theaters I have often watched, before my turn came on, a couple of acrobats
performing on trapezes high in the roof.  They swung themselves, they rocked to and fro, they sprang into the air, they floated into each other's arms, one hung by the
hair from the teeth of the other.  "And that too is human freedom," I thought, "self-controlled movement."  What a mockery of holy Mother Nature!  Were the apes to
see such a spectacle, no theater walls could stand the shock of their laughter. 
  

No, freedom was not what I wanted.  Only a way out; right or left, or in any direction; I made no other demand; even should the way out prove to be an illusion; the
demand was a small one, the disappointment could be no bigger.  To get out somewhere, to get out!  Only not to stay motionless with raised arms, crushed against a
wooden wall. 
  

Today I can see it clearly; without the most profound inward calm I could never have found my way out.  And indeed perhaps I owe all that I have become to the calm
that settled within me after my first few days in the ship.  And again for that calmness it vas the ship's crew I had to thank. 
  

They were good creatures, in spite of everything.  I find it still pleasant to remember the sound of their heavy footfalls which used to echo through my half-dreaming
head.  They had a habit of doing everything as slowly as possible.  If one of them wanted to rub his eyes, he lifted a hand as if it were a drooping weight.  Their jests
were coarse, but hearty.  Their laughter had always a gruff bark in it that sounded dangerous but meant nothing.  They always had something in their mouths to spit out
and did not care where they spat it.  They always grumbled that they got fleas from me; yet they were not seriously angry about it, they knew that my fur fostered fleas,
and that fleas jump; it was a simple matter of fact to them.  When they were off duty some of them often used to sit down in a semicircle around me; they hardly spoke
but only grunted to each other; smoked their pipes, stretched out on lockers; smacked their knees as soon as I made one slightest movement; and now and then one of
them would take a stick and tickle me where I liked being tickled.  If I were to be invited today to take a cruise on that ship I should certainly refuse the invitation, but
just as certainly the memories I could recall between its decks would not all be hateful. 
  

The calmness I acquired among these people kept me above all from trying to escape.  As I look back now, it seems to me I must have had at least an inkling that I had
to find a way out or die, but that my way out could not be reached through flight.  I cannot tell now whether escape was possible, but I believe it must have been; for an
ape it must always be possible.  With my teeth as they are today I have to be careful even in simply cracking nuts, but at that time I could certainly have managed by
degrees to bite through the lock of my cage.  I did not do it.  What good would it have done me?  As soon as I had poked out my head I should have been caught again
and put in a worse cage; or I might have slipped among the other animals without being noticed, among the pythons, say, who were opposite me, and so breathed out my
life in their embrace; or supposing I had actually succeeded in sneaking out as far as the deck and leaping overboard I should have rocked for a little on the deep sea and
then been drowned.  Desperate remedies.  I did not think it out in this human way, but under the influence of my surroundings I acted as if I had thought it out. 
  

I did not think things out; but I observed everything quietly.  I watched these men go to and fro, always the same faces, the same movements, often it seemed to me
there was only the same man.  So this man or these men walked about unimpeded.  A lofty goal faintly dawned before me.  No one promised me that if I became like
them the bars of my cage would be taken away.  Such promises for apparently impossible contingencies are not given.  But if one achieves the impossible, the promises
appear later retrospectively precisely where one had looked in vain for them before.  Now, these men in themselves had no great attraction for me.  Had I been devoted
to the aforementioned idea of freedom, I should certainly have preferred the deep sea to the way out that suggested itself in the heavy faces of these men.  At any rate,
I watched them for a long time before I even thought of such things, indeed, it was only the mass weight of my observations that impelled me in the right direction. 
  

It was so easy to imitate these people.  I learned to spit in the very first days.  We used to spit in each other's faces; the only difference was that I licked my face clean
afterwards and they did not.  I could soon smoke a pipe like an old hand; and if I also pressed my thumb into the bowl of the pipe, a roar of appreciation went up
between decks; only it took me a very long time to understand the difference between a full pipe and an empty one. 
  

My worst trouble came from the schnapps bottle.  The smell of it revolted me; I forced myself to it as best I could; but it took weeks for me to master my repulsion. 
This inward conflict, strangely enough, was taken more seriously by the crew than anything else about me.  I cannot distinguish the men from each other in my
recollection, but there was one of them who came again and again, alone or with friends, by day, by night, at all kinds of hours; he would post himself before me with the
bottle and give me instructions.  He could not understand me, he wanted to solve the enigma of my being.  He would slowly uncork the bottle and then look at me to see
if I had followed him; I admit that I always watched him with wildly eager, too eager attention; such a student of humankind no human teacher ever found on earth. 
After the bottle was uncorked he lifted it to his mouth; I followed it with my eyes right up to his jaws; he would nod, pleased with me, and set the bottle to his lips; I,
enchanted with my gradual enlightenment, squealed and scratched myself comprehensively wherever scratching was called for; he rejoiced, tilted the bottle, and took a
drink; I, impatient and desperate to emulate him, befouled myself in my cage, which again gave him great satisfaction; and then, holding the bottle at arm's length and
bringing it up with a swing, he would empty it at one draught, leaning back at an exaggerated angle for my better instruction.  I, exhausted by too much effort, could
follow him no farther and hung limply to the bars, while he ended his theoretical exposition by rubbing his belly and grinning. 
  

After theory came practice.  Was I not already quite exhausted by my theoretical instruction?  Indeed I was; utterly exhausted.  That was part of my destiny.  And yet I
would take hold of the proffered bottle as well as I was able; uncork it, trembling; this successful action would gradually inspire me with new energy; I would lift the
bottle, already following my original model almost exactly; put it to my lips and—and then throw it down in disgust, utter disgust, although it was empty and filled only
with the smell of the spirit, throw it down on the floor in disgust.  To the sorrow of my teacher, to the greater sorrow of myself; neither of us being really comforted by
the fact that I did not forget, even though I had thrown away the bottle, to rub my belly most admirably and to grin. 
  

Far too often my lesson ended in that way.  And to the credit of my teacher, he was not angry; sometimes indeed he would hold his burning pipe against my fur, until it
began to smolder in some place I could not easily reach, but then he would himself extinguish it with his own kind, enormous hand; he was not angry with me, he
perceived that we were both fighting on the same side against the nature of apes and that I had the more difficult task. 
  

What a triumph it was then both for him and for me, when one evening before a large circle of spectators—perhaps there was a celebration of some kind, a gramophone
was playing, an officer was circulating among the crew—when on this evening, just as no one was looking, I took hold of a schnapps bottle that had been carelessly left
standing before my cage, uncorked it in the best style, while the company began to watch me with mounting attention, set it to my lips without hesitation, with no
grimace, like a professional drinker, with rolling eyes and full throat, actually and truly drank it empty; then threw the bottle away, not this time in despair but as an
artistic performer; forgot, indeed, to rub my belly; but instead of that, because I could not help it, because my senses were reeling, called a brief and unmistakable
"Hallo!" breaking into human speech, and with this outburst broke into the human community, and felt its echo: "Listen, he's talking!" like a caress over the whole of my
sweat-drenched body. 
  

I repeat: there was no attraction for me in imitating human beings; I imitated them because I needed a way out, and for no other reason.  And even that triumph of mine
did not achieve much.  I lost my human voice again at once; it did not come back for months; my aversion for the schnapps bottle returned again with even greater
force.  But the line I was to follow had in any case been decided, once for all. 
  

When I was handed over to my first trainer in Hamburg I soon realized that there were two alternatives before me: the Zoological Gardens or the variety stage.  I did
not hesitate.  I said to myself: do your utmost to get onto the variety stage; the Zoological Gardens means only a new cage; once there, you are done for. 
  

And so I learned things, gentlemen.  Ah, one learns when one has to; one learns when one needs a way out; one learns at all costs.  One stands over oneself with a
whip; one flays oneself at the slightest opposition.  My ape nature fled out of me, head over heels and away, so that my first teacher was almost himself turned into an
ape by it, had soon to give up teaching and was taken away to a mental hospital.  Fortunately he was soon let out again. 
  

But I used up many teachers, indeed, several teachers at once.  As I became more confident of my abilities, as the public took an interest in my progress and my future
began to look bright, I engaged teachers for myself, established them in five communicating rooms, and took lessons from them all at once by dint of leaping from one
room to the other. 
  

That progress of mine!  How the rays of knowledge penetrated from all sides into my awakening brain!  I do not deny it: I found it exhilarating.  But I must also confess:
I did not overestimate it, not even then, much less now.  With an effort which up till now has never been repeated I managed to reach the cultural level of an average
European.  In itself that might be nothing to speak of, but it is something insofar as it has helped me out of my cage and opened a special way out for me, the way of
humanity.  There is an excellent idiom: to fight one's way through the thick of things; that is what I have done, I have fought through the thick of things.  There was
nothing else for me to do, provided always that freedom was not to be my choice. 
  

As I look back over my development and survey what I have achieved so far, I do not complain, but I am not complacent either.  With my hands in my trouser pockets,
my bottle of wine on the table, I half lie and half sit in my rocking chair and gaze out of the window: if a visitor arrives, I receive him with propriety.  My manager sits in
the anteroom; when I ring, he comes and listens to what I have to say.  Nearly every evening I give a performance, and I have a success that could hardly be
increased.  When I come home late at night from banquets, from scientific receptions, from social gatherings, there sits waiting for me a half-trained little chimpanzee
and I take comfort from her as apes do.  By day I cannot bear to see her; for she has the insane look of the bewildered half-broken animal in her eye; no one else sees
it, but I do, and I cannot bear it.  On the whole, at any rate, I have achieved what I set out to achieve.  But do not tell me that it was not worth the trouble.  In any case,
I am not appealing for any man's verdict, I am only imparting knowledge, I am only making a report.  To you also, honored Members of the Academy, I have only made
a report. 
  


                                          Translated by Willa and Edwin Muir. 
                                            Copyright Schocken Books Inc.




  
  

                                A Report to an Academy:  Two Fragments



We all know Rotpeter [Red Peter], just as half the world knows him.  But when he came to our town for a guest performance, I decided to get to know him personally. 
It is not difficult to be admitted.  In big cities where everyone in the know clamors to watch celebrities breathe from as close as possible, great difficulties may be
encountered; but in our town one is content to marvel at the marvelous from the pit.  Thus I was the only one so far, as thc hotel servant told me, to have announced his
visit.  Herr Busenau, the impresario, received me with extreme courtesy.  I had not expected to meet a man so modest, indeed almost timid.  He was sitting in the
anteroom of Rotpeter's apartment, eating an omelet.  Although it was morning he already sat there in the evening clothes in which he appears at the performances. 
Hardly had he caught sight of me—me the unknown, the unimportant guest—when he, possessor of highly distinguished medals, king of trainers, honorary doctor of
great universities, jumped up, shook me by both hands, urged me to sit down, wiped his spoon on the tablecloth, and amiably offered it to me so that I might finish his
omelet.  He would not accept my grateful refusal and promptly tried to feed me.  I had some trouble calming him down and warding him off, as well as his spoon and
plate. 
  

"Very kind of you to have come," he said with a strong foreign accent.  "Most kind.  You've also come at the right time, for alas Rotpeter cannot always receive.  Seeing
people is often repugnant to him; on these occasions no one, it does not matter who he may be, is admitted; then I, even I can see him only on business, so to speak, on
the stage.  And immediately after the performance I have to disappear, he drives home alone, locks himself in his room, and usually remains like that until the following
evening.  He always has a big hamper of fruit in his bedroom, this is what he lives on at these times.  But I, who of course dare not let him out of my sight, always rent
the apartment opposite his and watch him from behind curtains." 
  



  

When I sit opposite you like this, Rotpeter, listening to you talk, drinking your health, I really and truly forget—whether you take it as a compliment or not, it's the
truth—that you are a chimpanzee.  Only gradually, when I have forced myself out of my thoughts back to reality, do my eyes show me again whose guest I am. 
  

Yes. 
  

You're so silent suddenly, I wonder why?  Just a moment ago you were pronouncing such astonishingly correct opinions about our town, and now you're so silent. 
  

Silent? 
  

Is something wrong?  Shall I call the trainer?  Perhaps you're in the habit of taking a meal at this hour? 
  

No, no.  It's quite all right.  I can tell you what it was.  Sometimes I'm overcome with such an aversion to human beings that I can barely refrain from retching.  This, of
course, has nothing to do with the individual human being, least of all with your charming presence.  It concerns all human beings.  There's nothing extraordinary about
this.  Suppose, for instance, that you were to live continuously with apes, you'd probably have similar attacks, however great your self-control.  Actually, it's not the smell
of human beings that repels me so much, it's the human smell which I have contracted and which mingles with the smell from my native land.  Smell for yourself!  Here
on my chest!  Put your nose deeper into the fur!  Deeper, I say! 
  

I'm sorry, but I can't smell anything special.  Just the ordinary men of a well-groomed body, that's all.  The nose of a city-dweller, of course, is no fair test.  You, no
doubt, can scent thousands of things that evade us. 
  

Once upon a time, sir, once upon a time.  That's over. 
  

Since you brought it up yourself, I dare to ask: How long nave you actually been living among us? 
  

Five years.  On the fifth of April it will be five years. 
  

Terrific achievement.  To cast off apehood in five years and gallop through the whole evolution of mankind!  Certainly no one has ever done that before!  On this
racecourse you have no rival. 
  

It's a great deal, I know, and sometimes it surpasses even my understanding.  In tranquil moments, however, I feel less exuberant about it.  Do you know how I was
caught? 
  

I've read everything that's been printed about you.  You were shot at and then caught. 
  

Yes, I was hit twice, once here in the cheek—the wound of course was far larger than the scar you see—and the second time below the hip.  I'll take my trousers down
so you can see that scar, too.  Here then was where the bullet entered; this was the severe, decisive wound.  I fell from the tree and when I came to I was in a cage
between decks. 
  

In a cage!  Between decks!  It's one thing to read your story, and quite another to hear you tell it! 
  

And yet another, sir, to have experienced it.  Until then I had never known what it means to have no way out.  It was not a four-sided barred cage, it had only three
sides nailed to a locker, the locker forming the fourth side.  The whole contrivance was so low that I could not stand upright, and so narrow that I could not even sit
down.  All I could do was squat there with bent knees.  In my rage I refused to see anyone, and so remained facing the locker; for days and nights I squatted there with
trembling knees while behind me the bars cut into my flesh.  This manner of confining wild animals is considered to have its advantages during the first days of captivity,
and from my experience I cannot deny that from the human point of view this actually is the case.  But at that time I was not interested in the human point of view.  I
had the locker in front of me.  Break the boards, bite a hole through them, squeeze yourself through an opening which in reality hardly allows you to see through it and
which, when you first discover it, you greet with the blissful howl of ignorance!  Where do you want to go?  Beyond the boards the forest begins.... 
  

                                          Translated by Tania and James Stern. 
                                            Copyright Schocken Books Inc.
